---
layout: post
title: "What I've Learned from Buying a New Laptop"
categories:
  - computer specs
tags:
  - computer specs
---

### Unordered -- Ordered -- Unordered
*Intel and AMD processor I never knew nor cared about the difference between having a Intel or AMD processor (I know there are others out there but in most of the laptops I have seen these were common).  The type of processor, also, was important to me because I have a workstation that has been plagued with problems. I Recently attempted to install a Mac OS on my Ubuntu system that sported a AMD processor. After spending hours downloading the hefty 2gig image and installing dependencies on my host machine I realized this guest machine as well as all that are built with this infrastructure were not compatible with AMD processors. That really sucked, not just because of this realization but the fact that my use with this computer has, again, decreased. I knew to do the things I needed, smoothly with little to no functional errors or hiccups required a newer system with a better processor.

*SSD over SATA Again, this is also due to the fact of my old equipment. I have another old Mac that I was considering updating. Just to paint the picture, the battery has been replaced twice, it heats up enough to bake cookies (seriously cannot put it on any part of my skin, type of heat) and more importantly it was slow, very slow.  So the typical upgrade I could make to my 4 year old Mac was adding more RAM and, importantly, replacing the hard drive with a SSD. During this search I found out that SSD's are faster. Most laptops in the mid-range price with an SSD will more than likely have the 128 or 256 GB size. Most SATA’s in this same range are in the terabyte range. Then again when did you ever use a terabyte hard drive? I have a workstation with a terabyte HD that is 5 years old and have yet to reach capacity and that is after keeping a plethora of bloatware and updates.

*Shared versus Dedicated RAM Graphics card I tried my best to figure out WHY one would be better than the other. All I received were considering gaming. A dedicated graphics card allow for cleaner and better gaming however, I don’t game, I wasn’t looking for a laptop to game on and didn't care about how fast the refresh rate could be, I guess if I was watching movies, then I suppose this would be important. Then again, this was not the driving force for a new laptop. I know that adding more RAM to a system could offset the disadvantage of a shared graphics card. A simple 4- or 8-gb addition to a system could make it worth the extra $80 cost for the Memory versus forking over an extra couple hundred for a dedicated graphics card. 

All in all it all boiled down to my ultimate purpose for the computer and how I planned to use it. As a web developer, it boiled down to power and decent ram with a large maximum. A great processor, SSD hard drive and 8GB of ram (max at 32GB mind you) was what I deemed important. 

