---
layout: post
title: "JupyterCon 2017"
subtitle: "Some of My Takeaways From Attending This Year's JupyterCon"
categories:
  - conference jupyter data analysis
tags:
  - conference jupyter data analysis
description: "The happenings experienced during my first JupyterCon."
---

*So What did I learn*

### What I Learned
This was my first time attending a conference that was not centered around my current 9-to-5. That being said it was a little overwhelming (imposter syndrome in full affect). Nonetheless, I really enjoyed myself and learned enough to spark not only my interest but ignite ways for application.

__I can write an eBook.__ One of the talks was centered around the how's and why's for writing ebooks using Jupyter. As someone who had very little exposure to Jupyter this talk was easily understood but my takeaway was more about the ability to do so instead of the "how." Basically the content in Jupyter could be converted all into Markdown using libraries such as [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org/) . To manipulate the layout using [jinja](http://jinja.pocoo.org/) (this sounded more like Jupyter's rendition of cascading style sheets).

__Deep Learning.__ So this was one of the keynotes during the morning. It was delivered by [Rachel Thomas](http://fast.ai/) who is the cofounder of fst.ai, a site dedicated to teaching deep learning in an head-first interactive environment. So deep learning considers using a select number of algorithms. There is definitely more to it than that but the talk's intention wasn't to teach the course completely just brush over its purpose and accomplishments. Fast.ai also provide a free course to get started and there is also quite a few projects that are applying this knowledge. Deep learning goes further than machine learning and thinking about different *ways* I could apply this was very encouraging even from someone who knows very little, *for now* .

### Next Steps

My next steps include learning more. Starting with small datasets and utilizing some basic Python functionality to get acquainted. Once the basics have been accomplished, I want to start working with larger sets or get more into web scrapping to work with real-life data. Dabbling into machine and deep learning are also on the radar. The conference was a great place to start honing onto a direction and getting ideas of applications.
